MLOps guide draft (#2926)
astronomer/docs: learn/airflow-mlops.md

---
title: "Best practices for using Airflow for MLOps and ML pipelines"
sidebar_label: "MLOps"
description: "Learn how to use Airflow to run machine learning in production."
id: airflow-mlops
---

Machine Learning Operations (MLOps) is an umbrella term encompassing everything needed to run machine learning models in production. MLOps is a rapidly evolving field with many different best practices and behavioral patters with Apache Airflow right at the center.

In this guide you will learn:

- How Airflow fits into the MLOps landscape.
- How Airflow can help you implement best practices for different MLOps components.
- Which Airflow features and integrations are especially useful for MLOps.

> - How to implement different MLOps patterns with Airflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I would argue we're not really doing this here, since (for now at least), this guide is very high level. We're more describing the what and why, but not providing a ton of specific guidance. Let me know if you disagree though!

- Where to find additional resources and reference implementations on using Airflow for MLOps.

:::tip  

> Ready to get started? Check out our recommended resources showcasing ML implementations with Airflow:

Reviewer: This list is pretty long for a tip box. I would suggest removing the Faire webinar and Sissy-G toys repo at least - and maybe in general having links to Astro astro, one webinar, and one use case, and leave the rest for Other Resources at the end.

- **Data agnostic**: Airflow is data agnostic, which means it can be used to orchestrate any data pipeline, regardless of the data format or storage solution. You can plug in any new data storage, such as the latest vector database or your favorite RDBMS with minimal effort.
- **Ready for day 2 Ops**: Airflow is a mature orchestrator, coming with built-in functionality such as [automatic retries](rerunning-dags.md#automatically-retry-tasks), complex [dependencies](managing-dependencies.md) and [branching](airflow-branch-operator.md) logic, as well as the option to make pipelines [dynamic](dynamic-tasks.md).
- **Integrations**: Airflow has a large ecosystem of [integrations](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers), including many popular [MLOps tools](#airflow-integrations-for-mlops).

These features and many more make Airflow the place where data engineers and machine learning engineers meet.

> ## Components of MLOps

Reviewer: I think in each subsection here (except maybe the business one), we should add a generic statement about _how_ Airflow fits in. This is a great overview of the things that matter for MLOps, and why Airflow is a good choice, but it doesn't really describe what that looks like in practice. It doesn't need to be in depth (we could have probably many full reference architectures for each one of these), but just something high level to describe what Airflow is doing.

MLOps describes different patterns in how organizations can productionize machine learning models. [Gift and Deza (2021)](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/practical-mlops/9781098103002/) coined the "Rule of 25%" for MLOps, suggesting that MLOps best practices can be divided into four components:

- 25% DevOps
- 25% Data (Engineering)
- 25% Models
- 25% Business

> ### DevOps for MLOps with Airflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### DevOps for MLOps
```
We should keep the section headers consistent, and I think not adding "with Airflow" to each one makes more sense. I think you could potentially even remove the "for MLOps" part.

> DevOps best practices are based on all aspects of your data and machine learning pipeline being expressed as code and a set of behaviors when interacting with your code base. Since Airflow pipelines are defined in Python code, you can use all best practices for DevOps with Airflow. This includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DevOps best practices are based on all aspects of your data and machine learning pipeline being expressed as code and a set of behaviors when interacting with your code base. Since Airflow pipelines are defined in Python code, you can apply DevOps best practices when using Airflow. This includes:
```

> - **Version control**. All code and configuration should be stored in a version control system like [Git](https://git-scm.com/). Version control allows you to track all changes of your pipeline, ML model and environment over time and roll back to previous versions if needed. Astro customers can take advantage of [Deployment rollbacks](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/deploy-history).

Reviewer: I think this section is missing a description of what it means to use Airflow for DevOps. The best practices make sense, but are we saying Airflow is the DevOps tool in the case of MLOps? And how does that work in practice?

- **Infrastructure as code** ([IaC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infrastructure_as_code)). Ideally, all infrastructure is defined as code and follows the same CI/CD process as your pipeline and model code. This allows you to control and if necessary roll back environment changes as well as quickly deploy new instances of your model.

### Data Engineering for MLOps

There is no MLOps without data. You need to have robust data engineering workflows in place in order to confidently train, test and deploy ML models in production. Apache Airflow has been used by millions of data engineers to create reliable best practice data pipelines, providing a strong foundation for you MLOps workflows.

Special considerations should be given to:

> - [**Data quality**](data-quality.md) and data cleaning. If your data is of bad quality, your model predictions will be too. Astronomer recommends to incorporate data quality checks and data cleaning steps into your data pipelines to define and monitor the requirements your data has to fulfill in order for downstream ML operations to be successful. Airflow supports integration with any data quality tool that has an API with existing integrations for tools such as [Great Expectations](airflow-great-expectations.md) and [Soda Core](soda-data-quality.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [**Data quality**](data-quality.md) and data cleaning. If your data is of bad quality, your model predictions will be too. Astronomer recommends incorporating data quality checks and data cleaning steps into your data pipelines to define and monitor the requirements your data has to fulfill in order for downstream ML operations to be successful. Airflow supports integration with any data quality tool that has an API, and has pre-built integrations for tools such as [Great Expectations](airflow-great-expectations.md) and [Soda Core](soda-data-quality.md).
```

- **Data storage**. 
    - Training and testing data. The best way to store your data highly depends on your data and type of ML. Data engineering includes ingesting data and moving it to the ideal platform for your ML model to access. This can for example be an object storage solution, a relational database management system (RDBMS) or a vector database. Airflow integrates with all, with tools like [Airflow object storage] and the [Astro Python SDK](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/astro-python-sdk) simplifying common operations. 
    - Model artifacts. Model artifacts include model parameters, hyperparameters and other metadata. Airflow integrates with specialised version control systems such as [MLFlow](airflow-mlflow.md) or [Weights & Biases](airflow-weights-and-biases.md).

> Apart from the foundations mentioned above, second day data quality operations in MLOps often include advanced topics like data governance, [data lineage](airflow-openlineage.md) and data cataloging as well as monitoring of data drift.

Reviewer: Do we want to mention here how Airflow fits in?

- **Data preprocessing and feature engineering**. It is common for data to undergo several transformation steps before it is ready to be used as input for an ML model. These steps can include simple [preprocessing steps](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/preprocessing.html) like scaling, one-hot-encoding or imputation of missing values. It can also include more complex steps like [feature selection](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/feature_selection.html#feature-selection), [dimensionality reduction](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dimensionality_reduction) or [feature extraction](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/feature_extraction.html). Airflow allows you to run preprocessing and feature engineering steps in a pythonic way using [Airflow decorators](airflow-decorators.md).
- **Data storage**. 

>     - Training and testing data. The best way to store your data highly depends on your data and type of ML. Data engineering includes ingesting data and moving it to the ideal platform for your ML model to access. This can for example be an object storage solution, a relational database management system (RDBMS) or a vector database. Airflow integrates with all, with tools like [Airflow object storage] and the [Astro Python SDK](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/astro-python-sdk) simplifying common operations. 

Reviewer 2: For the ` [Airflow object storage]` in this line, did you intend to add a url/hyperlink to `Airflow object storage` or the square brackets extra?
```
with tools like [Airflow object storage] and the [Astro Python SDK](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/astro-python-sdk)
```

    ![DAG with setup/ teardown tasks creating and tearing down an ML cluster.](/img/guides/airflow-mlops_setup_teardown.png)

- [Branching](airflow-branch-operator.md): Airflow allows you to branch your DAG based on the outcome of a task. This allows you to create different paths in your DAG based on the outcome of a task. For example you could branch your DAG based on the performance of a model on a test set and only deploy the model if it performs above a certain threshold.

    ![DAG with a branching task deciding whether or not a model is retrained and redeployed.](/img/guides/airflow-mlops_branching.png)

- [Automatic retries](rerunning-dags.md#automatically-retry-tasks): Airflow allows you to configure tasks to automatically retry if they fail according to custom set delays. This feature is critical to protect your pipeline against outages of external tools and rate limits and can be configured at the global, DAG or down to the individual task level.

> ### Airflow integrations for MLOps

Reviewer 2: I am not an expert in Airflow, but I think it may be great to bring up the integrations/providers supported in Airflow like AWS providers, and other providers that allow airflow to integrate easily with major cloud computing services because after all, MLOps could involve orchestrating ML training which can occur, for example, on an AWS EC2 instance with GPUs. The ones we listed below are great but they are more focused on contemporary developments of LLMs and using commercial LLM related solutions, whereas I think Airflow already has great potential/support also for traditional the ML world in general which are all closely tied to data processing and distributed computing!

In this guide you learn:

- How Airflow fits into the MLOps landscape.
- How Airflow can help you implement best practices for different MLOps components.
- Which Airflow features and integrations are especially useful for MLOps.
- Where to find additional resources and reference implementations on using Airflow for MLOps.

:::tip  

Ready to get started? Check out the recommended resources showcasing machine learning (ML) implementations with Airflow:

- [Ask Astro](https://github.com/astronomer/ask-astro) LLM Retrieval Augmented Generation pipeline reference architecture ([Blog post deep dive](https://www.astronomer.io/blog/ask-astro-operationalizing-data-ingest-for-retrieval-augmented-generation-with-llms-part-3/)).
- [The Laurel Algorithm: MLOps, AI, and Airflow for Perfect Timekeeping](https://www.astronomer.io/events/webinars/the-laurel-algorithm-mlops-ai-and-airflow-for-perfect-timekeeping/) webinar.
- [Run an integrated ELT and ML pipeline on Stripe data in Airflow](use-case-elt-ml-finance.md) use case.

:::

## Assumed Knowledge

To get the most benefits from this guide, you need an understanding of:

> - The basics of [Machine Learning](https://mlu-explain.github.io/).

Author: Yes, we do it in a couple of cases where we don't have our own resource, like for example for basic Python and SQL. Thank you for the link, I will use that one instead :)

- Basic Airflow concepts. See [Introduction to Apache Airflow](intro-to-airflow.md).

## Why use Airflow for MLOps?

> 

Author: I added a short rephrased one from the intro sentence of the guide :)

- **Pluggable compute**: When using Airflow you can [pick and choose](#model-operations-and-compute-considerations) the compute you want to use for each task. This allows you to use the the perfect environment and resources for every single action in your ML pipeline. For example, you can run your data engineering tasks on a Spark cluster and your model training tasks on a GPU instance.
- **Data agnostic**: Airflow is data agnostic, which means it can be used to orchestrate any data pipeline, regardless of the data format or storage solution. You can plug in any new data storage, such as the latest vector database or your favorite RDBMS, with minimal effort.
- **Ready for day 2 Ops**: Airflow is a mature orchestrator, coming with built-in functionality such as [automatic retries](rerunning-dags.md#automatically-retry-tasks), complex [dependencies](managing-dependencies.md) and [branching](airflow-branch-operator.md) logic, as well as the option to make pipelines [dynamic](dynamic-tasks.md).
- **Integrations**: Airflow has a large ecosystem of [integrations](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers), including many popular [MLOps tools](#airflow-integrations-for-mlops).

> - **Shared platform**: Airflow is used by both data engineers and ML engineers, which allows teams to create direct dependencies between their pipelines, for example by using [Airflow Datasets](airflow-datasets.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Shared platform**: Both data engineers and ML engineers use Airflow, which allows teams to create direct dependencies between their pipelines, such as using [Airflow Datasets](airflow-datasets.md).
```

### Airflow for LLMOps

**Large Language Model Operations** (LLMOps) is a subset of MLOps that describes interactions with large language models (LLMs). In contrast to traditional ML models, LLMs are often too large to be trained from scratch and LLMOps techniques instead revolve around adapting existing LLMs to new use cases.

The three main techniques for LLMOps are:

- **Prompt engineering**: This is the simplest technique to influence the output of an LLM. You can use Airflow to create a pipeline that ingests user prompts and modifies them according to your needs, before sending them to the LLM inference endpoint.
- **Retrieval augmented generation** (RAG): RAG pipelines retrieve relevant context from domain-specific and often proprietary data to improve the output of an LLM. See [Ask Astro](https://github.com/astronomer/ask-astro) for an Airflow RAG reference architecture.
- **Fine-tuning**: Fine-tuning LLMs typically involves retraining the final layers of an LLM on a specific dataset. This often requires more complex pipelines and a larger amount of [compute](#model-operations-and-compute-considerations) that can be orchestrated with Airflow.

## Components of MLOps

> MLOps describes different patterns in how organizations can productionize machine learning models. [Gift and Deza (2021)](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/practical-mlops/9781098103002/) coined the _Rule of 25%_ for MLOps, suggesting that MLOps best practices can be divided into four components:

Author: That is a good callout which is also relevant for the MLOps Academy module. I'll put it on the list of open questions, how we want to define MLOps components and if that should be our own definition, how it differs from existing ones. :)

In practice, following modern data engineering patterns when using Airflow for MLOps means:

- Following general [Airflow best practices](dag-best-practices.md) for DAG writing, such as keeping tasks atomic and idempotent.
- Using Airflow to orchestrate data ingestion from sources such as APIs, source databases and object storage into a working location for your ML model. This might be a vector database, a relational database, or an object storage solution depending on your use case.
- Incorporating data quality checks into your Airflow pipelines, with critical data quality checks halting the pipeline or alerting you if they fail.
- Using Airflow to orchestrate data preprocessing and feature engineering steps.
- Moving data to permanent cold storage after it has been used for training and testing.

![Diagram showing an example ETL/ELT pipeline for Machine Learning.](/img/guides/airflow-mlops_de.png)

### Model operations and compute considerations

After you establish strong DevOps and data engineering foundations, you can start to implement model operations.

> With Airflow you can use your ML tools and compute locations of choice. Some organizations choose to use external compute for all of their heavy workloads, for example:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With Airflow you can use the ML tools and compute locations of your choice. Some organizations choose to use external compute for all of their heavy workloads, for example:
```

![Diagram showing different Airflow DAGs relating to model operations in an MLOps pipeline](/img/guides/airflow-mlops_ml_dags.png)

### Business

The final component of MLOps is the business side. This component will vary widely depending on your organization and use case and can include:

- **Business strategy**: Defining what ML is used for in an organization and what trade-offs are acceptable. Often, models can be optimized for different metrics, for example high recall or high precision, and domain experts are needed to determine the right metrics and model strategy. 
- **Model governance**: Creating and following regulations for how your organization uses machine learning. This often depends on relevant regulations like GDPR or HIPAA. Airflow has a built-in integration option with [Open Lineage](airflow-openlineage.md), the open-source standard for tracking data lineage, which is a key component of model governance.

## How Airflow addresses MLOps challenges

When using Apache Airflow for MLOps, there are three main patterns you can follow:

> - Using Apache Airflow to orchestrate actions in other MLOps tools. Airflow is a tool agnostic orchestrator, which means it can also orchestrate all actions in ML specific tools like [MLFlow](airflow-mlflow.md) or [AWS SageMaker](airflow-sagemaker.md). 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Using Apache Airflow to orchestrate actions in other MLOps tools. Airflow is a tool-agnostic orchestrator, which means it can also orchestrate all actions in ML specific tools like [MLFlow](airflow-mlflow.md) or [AWS SageMaker](airflow-sagemaker.md). 
```

- [Branching](airflow-branch-operator.md): Airflow allows you to branch your DAG based on the outcome of a task. You can use this to create different paths in your DAG based on the outcome of a task. For example, you can branch your DAG based on the performance of a model on a test set and only deploy the model if it performs above a certain threshold.

    ![DAG with a branching task deciding whether or not a model is retrained and redeployed.](/img/guides/airflow-mlops_branching.png)

- [Automatic retries](rerunning-dags.md#automatically-retry-tasks): Airflow allows you to configure tasks to automatically retry if they fail according to custom set delays. This feature is critical to protect your pipeline against outages of external tools or rate limits and can be configured at the global, DAG, or the individual task level.

### Airflow integrations for MLOps

With Airflow, you can orchestrate actions in any MLOps tool that has an API. Many MLOps tools have integrations available with pre-defined modules like operators, decorators, and hooks to interact with the tool. For example, there are integrations for:

> - [AWS SageMaker](airflow-sagemaker.md). A tool to train and deploy machine learning models on AWS.

Reviewer 4: Azure ML should be added here. We have a webinar soon about it too

Author: Thanks for the headsup! Do we have something currently to link to for Azure ML other than the general Azure provider? If not I'd wait until after that webinar and then add it to the list here :)

Reviewer 4: That's a good question for @kentdanas. I'm not sure if we have anything yet.

Reviewer: No, we don't have any content right now specific to Azure ML, and I don't believe there are any specific operators (at least that I could find in OSS). The webinar likely won't be until March. I think you can go ahead and list it here without a link (or just add a link to Azure ML docs), and update it to the webinar one once we do that.

### Airflow for LLMOps

**Large Language Model Operations** (LLMOps) is a subset of MLOps that describes interactions with large language models (LLMs). In contrast to traditional ML models, LLMs are often too large to be trained from scratch and LLMOps techniques instead revolve around adapting existing LLMs to new use cases.

The three main techniques for LLMOps are:

- **Prompt engineering**: This is the simplest technique to influence the output of an LLM. You can use Airflow to create a pipeline that ingests user prompts and modifies them according to your needs, before sending them to the LLM inference endpoint.
- **Retrieval augmented generation** (RAG): RAG pipelines retrieve relevant context from domain-specific and often proprietary data to improve the output of an LLM. See [Ask Astro](https://github.com/astronomer/ask-astro) for an Airflow RAG reference architecture.
- **Fine-tuning**: Fine-tuning LLMs typically involves retraining the final layers of an LLM on a specific dataset. This often requires more complex pipelines and a larger amount of [compute](#model-operations-and-compute-considerations) that can be orchestrated with Airflow.

> ## Components of MLOps

Author: @odaneau-astro I changed the definition here to fit the one from your notion page (that is super helpful, thank you!). For the "one sentence explanation" I changed the language a little bit to fit in more with docs, but I hope I got the core meaning right :) 

cc: @shillion

---
title: "Best practices for orchestrating MLOps pipelines with Airflow"
sidebar_label: "MLOps"
description: "Learn how to use Airflow to run machine learning in production."
id: airflow-mlops
---

> **Machine Learning Operations** (MLOps) is an umbrella term encompassing everything needed to run machine learning models in production. MLOps is a rapidly evolving field with many different best practices and behavioral patterns with Apache Airflow providing tool agnostic orchestration capabilities for all steps.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Machine Learning Operations** (MLOps) is a broad term encompassing everything needed to run machine learning models in production. MLOps is a rapidly evolving field with many different best practices and behavioral patterns with Apache Airflow, providing tool agnostic orchestration capabilities for all steps.
```

In this guide you learn:

- How Airflow fits into the MLOps landscape.
- How Airflow can be used for large language model operations (LLMOps).
- How Airflow can help you implement best practices for different MLOps components.
- Which Airflow features and integrations are especially useful for MLOps.
- Where to find additional resources and reference implementations on using Airflow for MLOps.

:::tip  

> Ready to get started? Check out the recommended resources showcasing machine learning (ML) implementations with Airflow:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ready to get started? Check out the recommended resources that showcase machine learning (ML) implementations with Airflow:
```

- [Ask Astro](https://github.com/astronomer/ask-astro) LLM Retrieval Augmented Generation pipeline reference architecture ([Blog post deep dive](https://www.astronomer.io/blog/ask-astro-operationalizing-data-ingest-for-retrieval-augmented-generation-with-llms-part-3/)).
- [The Laurel Algorithm: MLOps, AI, and Airflow for Perfect Timekeeping](https://www.astronomer.io/events/webinars/the-laurel-algorithm-mlops-ai-and-airflow-for-perfect-timekeeping/) webinar.
- [Run an integrated ELT and ML pipeline on Stripe data in Airflow](use-case-elt-ml-finance.md) use case.

:::

## Assumed Knowledge

To get the most benefits from this guide, you need an understanding of:

- The basics of [Machine Learning](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/machine-learning-introduction).
- Basic Airflow concepts. See [Introduction to Apache Airflow](intro-to-airflow.md).

## Why use Airflow for MLOps?

> **Machine learning operations** (MLOps) encompasses all patterns, tools and best practices related to running machine learning models in production.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Machine learning operations** (MLOps) encompasses all patterns, tools, and best practices related to running machine learning models in production.
```

- **Fine-tuning**: Fine-tuning LLMs typically involves retraining the final layers of an LLM on a specific dataset. This often requires more complex pipelines and a larger amount of [compute](#model-operations-and-compute-considerations) that can be orchestrated with Airflow.

## Components of MLOps

MLOps describes different patterns in how organizations can productionize machine learning models. MLOps consists of four main components:

- **BusinessOps**: the processes and activities in an organization that are needed to deliver any outcome, including successful MLOps workflows.
- **DevOps**: the software development (dev) and IT operations (ops) practices that are needed for the delivery of any high quality software, including machine learning based applications.
- **DataOps**: the practices and tools surrounding data engineering and data analytics to build the foundation for machine learning implementations.
- **ModelOps**: automated governance, management and monitoring of machine learning models in production.

### BusinessOps

> The first component of MLOps is to make sure there is strategic aligment with all stakeholders. This component will vary widely depending on your organization and use case and can include:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The first component of MLOps is to make sure there is strategic aligment with all stakeholders. This component varies widely depending on your organization and use case and can include:
```

- **Business strategy**: Defining what ML is used for in an organization and what trade-offs are acceptable. Often, models can be optimized for different metrics, for example high recall or high precision, and domain experts are needed to determine the right metrics and model strategy. 

> - **Model governance**: Creating and following regulations for how your organization uses machine learning. This often depends on relevant regulations like GDPR or HIPAA. Airflow has a built-in integration option with [Open Lineage](airflow-openlineage.md), the open-source standard for tracking data lineage, which is a key component of model governance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Model governance**: Creating and following regulations for how your organization uses machine learning. This often depends on relevant regulations, like GDPR or HIPAA. Airflow has a built-in integration option with [Open Lineage](airflow-openlineage.md), the open-source standard for tracking data lineage, which is a key component of model governance.
```

### DevOps

Since you define Airflow pipelines in Python code, you can apply DevOps best practices when using Airflow. This includes:

> - **Version control**. All code and configuration should be stored in a version control system like [Git](https://git-scm.com/). Version control allows you to track all changes of your pipeline, ML model and environment over time and roll back to previous versions if needed. Astro customers can take advantage of [Deployment rollbacks](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/deploy-history).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Version control**. All code and configuration should be stored in a version control system like [Git](https://git-scm.com/). Version control allows you to track all changes of your pipeline, ML model, and environment over time and roll back to previous versions if needed. Astro customers can take advantage of [Deployment rollbacks](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/deploy-history).
```

- **Continuous integration/ continuous delivery** ([CI/CD](https://resources.github.com/ci-cd/)). It is a standard Software best practice for all code to undergo automatic testing, linting, and deployment. This ensures that your code is always in a working state and that any changes are automatically deployed to production. Airflow integrates with all major CI/CD tools, see [CI/CD templates](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/ci-cd-templates/template-overview) for popular templates.

> - **Infrastructure as code** ([IaC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infrastructure_as_code)). Ideally, all infrastructure is defined as code and follows the same CI/CD process as your pipeline and model code. This allows you to control and, if necessary, roll back environment changes or quickly deploy new instances of your model.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Infrastructure as code** ([IaC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infrastructure_as_code)). Ideally, all infrastructure is defined as code and follows the same CI/CD process as your pipeline and model code. This allows you to control and, if necessary, roll back environment changes, or quickly deploy new instances of your model.
```

- **Data storage**. 
    - Training and testing data. The best way to store your data highly depends on your data and type of ML. Data engineering includes ingesting data and moving it to the ideal platform for your ML model to access. This can, for example, be an object storage solution, a relational database management system (RDBMS), or a vector database. Airflow integrates with all these options, with tools such as [Airflow object storage](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/objectstorage.html) and the [Astro Python SDK](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/astro-python-sdk) simplifying common operations. 

>     - Model artifacts. Model artifacts include model parameters, hyperparameters, and other metadata. Airflow integrates with specialized version control systems such as [MLFlow](airflow-mlflow.md) or [Weights & Biases](airflow-weights-and-biases.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Model artifacts. Model artifacts include model parameters, hyperparameters, and other metadata. Airflow integrates with specialized version control systems such as [MLFlow](airflow-mlflow.md) or [Weights and Biases](airflow-weights-and-biases.md).
```

> Apart from the foundations mentioned above, second day data quality operations in MLOps often include advanced topics like data governance, [data lineage](airflow-openlineage.md) and data cataloging as well as monitoring of data drift.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Apart from the foundations mentioned above, second day data quality operations in MLOps often include advanced topics like data governance, [data lineage](airflow-openlineage.md), and data cataloging as well as monitoring of data drift.
```

In practice, following modern data engineering patterns when using Airflow for MLOps means:

- Following general [Airflow best practices](dag-best-practices.md) for DAG writing, such as keeping tasks atomic and idempotent.

> - Using Airflow to orchestrate data ingestion from sources such as APIs, source databases and object storage into a working location for your ML model. This might be a vector database, a relational database, or an object storage solution depending on your use case.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Using Airflow to orchestrate data ingestion from sources such as APIs, source databases, and object storage into a working location for your ML model. This might be a vector database, a relational database, or an object storage solution depending on your use case.
```

Other Airflow users decide to [scale up](airflow-scaling-workers.md) their Airflow infrastructure with larger worker nodes for compute intensive tasks. Astro customers can leverage the [worker queues](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/configure-worker-queues) feature, which lets them decide the exact specifications for the workers each task can run on. This means that Airflow only uses large workers for the biggest workloads, saving compute and cost.

In practice, following modern model operations patterns when using Airflow for MLOps means:

- Performing exploratory data analysis and test potential ML applications on small subsets of data in a notebook environment before moving to production. Tools like [Jupyter notebooks](https://jupyter.org/) are widely used and run Python code you can later convert to tasks in Airflow DAGs.

> - Using Airflow to orchestrate model training, fine-tuning, testing and deployment. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Using Airflow to orchestrate model training, fine-tuning, testing, and deployment. 
```
